[Applause]
[Music]
everybody and welcome to the EE British
Academy Film Awards thank you for
joining us with this auspicious
star-studded celebration of cinema in
all its forms whatever that means and
I'm Graham Norton your host for this
evening which means there's more than
one Irishman here tonight that seems to
go on and on now this is lovely as look
at us gathered here in the breathtaking
Royal Albert Hall stunning I think we
can all agree well maybe not Prince
William he's just looking bit pokey
could not through royalties here and why
not because it's the Buster's tonight
it's the BAFTAs the glamour the
excitement the length and now I should
add don't be too concerned tonight
because you're in safe hands I'm not
going to be mean to anyone because you
might know in my other job I'm a chat
show host which means apparently I have
never seen a film I didn't really enjoy
it's true
I loved cats
clever I loved it yeah prizes for acting
it's not that hard now a huge thank you
must be a made to all our American
friends for making the effort to come
here tonight because you know I know it
takes ages to sail across the Atlantic
doesn't it yeah you did yeah thank you
for caring it's the Eco Awards ladies
and gentlemen this year BAFTA have asked
us to make sustainable fashion choices
old clothes and now I have no I really
have fun fact this jacket is older than
Florence Pugh and I'm not even joking it
really is for its it really is and it's
so many young nominees done it's
fantastic not just Florence there's
Jesse Buffy Turner Edgerton social Ronin
you know and I look at you guys I look
at you guys and I can't help but think
oh if only I've been born 30 years
earlier I'd be dead now
I'm not eaten away by bitterness and
jealousy
hey 2019 though what a year in film I
think it'll be remembered as a year when
white man finally broke through yeah
high five high five
yes Peter Chad about the older white
male priviledge and you can sort of see
why I mean eleven nominations for Joker
which is essentially the story of a
white man who makes himself even whiter
[Applause]
yeah wonderful Jojo rabbit nominated
water film an adorable heroic child and
a cartoonish monster is that when Greta
Sundberg met Trumbull other great films
nominated tonight in 1917 two popes and
the incredible parasite oh so good it
really is I I was thrilled to hear of
parasites nominations though at first I
did think it was a new category for
agents brilliant was once upon a time in
Hollywood gentlemen oh it takes it takes
a last algid look back at the Hollywood
of 50 years ago and what we saw was a
misogynistic male-dominated industry
resistant to change
taking a nostalgic look back at 50 years
ago and the Irishman 10 nominations
ladies and gentlemen also released on
Netflix prompting the director Martin
Scorsese to implore people to respect
the film by not watching it on their
phone and really worrying who's battery
lasts that long
[Applause]
[Music]
and the BAFTA is presented to Laura Dern
for Marisol
[Music]
[Applause]
when I was six years old my mother
received this very award in this
category
thanks to mr. Scorsese and it's sat on
our piano and my friend asked me what's
that mask and I said my mom told me that
it's what friends give you to
congratulate you because you get to have
the job you love so thank you BAFTA
thank you for including me in this room
of extraordinary artists and beloved
friends as we get to tell stories and do
the job we love we're so lucky thank you
to our beautiful British producer David
Heyman thank you to Netflix Ted Saranda
Scott Stuber everyone that worked
tirelessly to give our maestro our muse
our hero Noah Baumbach our story and his
autonomy
- such an extraordinary cast I get to be
part of Adam Scarlett - Allen ray
everyone that worked on this casting our
amazing crew thank you thank you to my
beautiful family my children and all the
other things and many things that I love
about this country
thank you for a DES where I studied
thank you for my aunt
Averell thank you for Peter Sellers and
my children get to grow up and their
heroes will reflect themselves in them
so thank you for culture growing with us
and I love movies so thank you for
letting me be part of it
and the BAFTA is awarded to Brad Pitt
for once upon a time
I hate to disappoint you all but
unfortunately Brad Pitt I'm also very
disappointed he's unable to be here
tonight sir to pick up the award on
their behalf is Margot Robbie
okay Brad couldn't be here tonight due
to family obligations so he asked me to
read his response for him okay he starts
by saying hey Britain heard you Joseph
became single welcome to the club
wishing you the best with the divorce
settlement blah blah blah he then says
thank you to the Academy for this
extreme honor he says he's always going
to be intimidated over here given the
Royal Academy of Dramatic Arts and the
Titans that have come before so this is
especially meaningful he says he would
like to thank produces David Heyman and
Shannon Mackintosh the wild and
wonderful Zoe Bell Rob Alonso and the
rest of the stunt team the lovely Ariane
Phillips for his oh so tight jeans I'd
also like to thank her for those here's
old mate Simon Jones and the one and
only Quentin Tarantino
he goes on by thanking you again and
blah blah blah blah blah blah spit much
really oh and he says that he is gonna
name this Harry cuz he is really excited
about bringing it back to the states
with him here's why it's not mine
and the EE rising star goes to mark
Award
[Applause]
[Music]
well guys thank you for that reception
add something but it's all good to work
oh my days I just want to say thank you
first of all to God for making
everything possible
thank you to my dad because I know
you're watching down him yeah got it
protecting me on this journey I want to
say thank you to my mom for believing in
me and sacrificing everything for all of
us to be here and I can't come up here
and not say thank you to my team
lvia Belle Xenia Ellie for introducing
me to the to the team Gavin for putting
in work and work daily to just find me
more and more opportunities man and I
want to say thank you to top way for
changing my life forever blue story you
know like I wouldn't be here without the
moment without the movie man well the
list can go on but what I wanna say is
that people are watching at home that
looking at me now honestly laughs didn't
have to be this way man you have to see
the opportunities and just see a vision
and yeah man thank you guys
[Applause]
[Music]
good evening distinguished guests and
those who don't identify as that it is
really great to be here at the Royal
Andrew a royal Harry nice royal you know
it's that this royal palace play sorry I
was just told backstage that no one's
getting a massive gift bag tonight yeah
instead you're all getting a gifting
wallet yeah which is funny because
that's also the nickname of my vagina
maybe it is me who win Best Original
Score the after-party tonight
now as Graham was saying tonight is all
about sustainability so
so I made this dress by sewing two old
dresses together
the red is from that one time I didn't
win Miss Australia and the black is from
a funeral I just went to for the feature
film cast
[Applause]
yes strangely not nominated for any
awards I'm not sure if everyone here is
across the controversy but you see there
has been a distinct lack of nominations
for felines yeah okay even in this best
director category no felines have been
nominated it's really shocking but at
least I get to hold this BAFTA for our
moment and well what a great way to stop
yourself from getting coronavirus
[Applause]
Sam Mendes mom Scorsese Todd Phillips
Quentin Tarantino bong joon-ho I look at
the exceptional daring talent nominated
in this category and I dose I don't
think I could do what they do
honestly I just don't have the balls
[Applause]
and the BAFTA is awarded to Sam Mindy's
for 1970
[Applause]
[Music]
thank you very much thank you very very
much after in the midst of all this
hoopla and stuff it's sometimes easy to
forget the actual experience of shooting
a movie and I had a kind of directors
paradise in this film that I think I
will never ever have again so I want to
say a real thank you to the people who
actually helped me make this film -
three amazing producers Jane integrin
and Kannamma Duggal and my dear friend
who I've known since I was 14 years old
Pippa Harris the best producers really
the best the most supportive - an
incredible cast - George McKay who was
extraordinary in this film and Dean
Charles Chapman and - - the classiest
bunch of day players a director could
ever have Andrew Scott Colin Firth
Benedict Cumberbatch mark Strong Richard
Madden incredible cast thank you thank
you - the most extraordinary crew and
especially - for people my production
designer and friend Dennis Gassner to
the brilliant Tom Newman for his music
to the extraordinary unsung hero of this
movie who was Lee Smith the editor and
especially to Roger Deakins the master
himself
today and yes it's a war movie that we
made but it's also a movie about home
and about family so it's moving to me to
get this in my hometown for the first
time and to be able to say thank you to
my beautiful family to say thank you to
my children Joe and Phoebe and the
splendidly attired Charlie who is
sitting with us tonight and of course
especially to my inspiration my
beautiful wife Allie this is for you
thank you very much indeed
[Applause]
and the BAFTA goes to like in Phoenix
today
[Applause]
[Music]
I feel very honored and privileged to be
here tonight Baptists have always been
very supportive of my career and I'm
deeply appreciative but I have to say
that I also feel conflicted because so
many of my fellow actors that are
deserving don't have that same privilege
I think that we send a very clear
message to people of color that you're
not welcome here I think that's the
message that we're sending to people
that have contributed so much to our
medium and our industry and in ways that
we benefit from I don't think anybody
wants a handout or preferential
treatment although that's what we give
ourselves every year I think that people
just want to be acknowledged and
appreciated and respected for for their
work this is not a self-righteous
condemnation because I'm ashamed to say
that I'm part of the problem I have not
done everything in my power to ensure
that the sets I work on are inclusive
but I think that it's more than just
having sets that are multicultural I
think that we have to really do the hard
work to truly understand systemic racism
I I think that it is the obligation of
the people that have created and
perpetuate and benefit from a system of
oppression to be the ones that dismantle
it
so that's on us
[Applause]
and the Baptism orded - Renee Zellweger
[Music]
[Applause]
I'll wait the gentleman Bob just said
this is very heavy thank you to the
British Academy this is this is very
humbling sources Charlize Scarlett Jesse
what an honor to be here with you
tonight
Jesse Buckley you are a superstar I'm so
proud of you for this evening
you're such a special person you elevate
everything that you do and I love you
and I admire you and I'm so grateful for
our collaboration thank you for our
friendship thank you
antiphon wit Rock and rufus sewell in
our entire cast including the feather
girls dancing and all our pals in the
audience at the Hackney Empire who
worked so hard
miss Roslin Wilder your treasured
memories of time shared with Judy
Garland and the talk of the town helped
light the way and inspired us all so
thank you my team back home in here
thank you my partners in crime David
Livingstone and roofer goals
thank you for your creative brilliance
it was such a pleasure to watch and
experience thank you for your faith and
for your guidance
hey Tom thanks for those great words
Jeremy for your magic makeup Janee for
those unbelievable costumes and have to
thank all my stage mom's composer Matt
Dunkley Jeff Foster I can't forget on
Paul
Chandler Lynn Luke Jen Andrew and tricky
Dicky Kane Milliken
Tora and Brett's your support and your
patience meant everything and to all of
our crew like what we did invited to the
BAFTAs in this town where Judy played
her final shows lived her final days
alongside a film about that last chapter
made in this town by a group of folks
who just wanted to collaboratively
celebrate her and look it's pretty neat
sharing this experience and this evening
with you is among my life's great
blessings and I'm so grateful miss
Garland
London town which you have always loved
so much still loves you back this is for
you thanks everyone
and the BAFTA goes to 1970
[Applause]
[Music]
Thank You BAFTA for giving us a really
wonderful night thank you very very much
and thank you for all the people who've
gone to see this movie in the cinemas
it's still on thank you for the crew to
the crew up there in the gods thank you
thank you to Hamblin
Jeb Brody Terry press Universal Donna
Langley New Republic and all the home
team at Neil Street and all those people
one who helped release this movie thank
you for your support you've heard enough
from me I want to introduce someone else
to make a speech for a change the
wonderful and the person we built this
movie around the extraordinary George
McKay
thank you thank you very much and thank
you Sam it's it's a really wonderful
feeling when you know that sense of
alignment and that's what we were going
for every day with this film there was
never a lead element in term of any
department or anything other than the
story and the shot that we were trying
to get so we'd like to share this with
every single member of the crew and the
team who gave their time and themselves
to the projects and and the whole
process and the film itself is is a
lesson in in the goodness they can come
and going for something that's bigger
than yourself
so working together within that so thank
you very much Cheers
[Applause]
[Music]